Data Ethics Practical 1
Discussion of Black Mirror Episode
‘Arkangel’ (S4E2)
Author : 150008022
February 20, 2020

1

Synopsis

The episode Arkangel tells the story of a Mother (Marie) and the childhood
of her daughter (Sara) who is implanted with the Arkangel system after
wandering off and panicking her mother at a very young age. Via a ‘parental
hub’ (a tablet device), the Arkangel system allows Marie to know her child’s
location, monitor her vitals, and see a live stream of Sara’s vision at any
time. The implant is also capable of filtering the world through augmented
reality, removing any stimulation that raises the stress levels of her child such
as a dog barking aggressively.
While at work, a warning from the device that Sara’s stress levels have
increased results in Marie being notified that her father was having a stroke,
and so she is able to quickly call emergency services and save his life. Sara
is unaware of what was happening at the time due to the filter.
As she is growing up, Sara becomes increasingly aware of the filters effect.
It interferes when her friends are describing violence and gore, and we see her
curiosity become strong enough that she pricks her fingers with a pencil to
try and see blood. Her mother feels guilty after realising that the filter has
hampered her child’s emotional growth but is unable to remove the implant,
and so she promises to no longer use the parental hub, and removes the filter.
Sara then becomes friends with a troubled boy at her school, who after
learning that she is no longer hindered by the filter exposes her to pornography and other content she was previously shielded from.
1

As a teenager, Sara lies about her whereabouts to spend time with the
troubled boy. Marie is unable to contact her and realises her daughter deception, and so re-activates the Arkangel device to discover her daughter was
having sex. She does not reprimand her daughter for her dishonesty, but
returns to tracking her using the device. After seeing that the boy was now
introducing her daughter to narcotics, Marie approaches him at his work and
threatens to report him to the police if he does not leave her daughter alone.
Marie then sneaks emergency contraception into her daughters drink,
which causes her to throw up at school later that day. The nurses identify
the cause of the sickness, which allows Sara to realise what has happened.
She finds the contraceptive packaging in her home, and then finds the Arkangel device which is activated and containing the footage of her having sex.
Enraged, Sara tries to destroy the parental hub. Her mother tries to stop
her, to which Sara responds by beating her with the device, the filter blurring
the severe injuries she is causing. The device now broken, Sara runs away,
leaving her mother looking for her in vain.

2

Technology

As access to the internet and smart devices became ubiquitous, the demand
for parental controls on these devices grew. One of the earliest examples
of this need was when broadband providers began offering parental filters
so that parents could restrict their kids internet access. As technology has
improved and children’s screen time doubled [1], parental control has become
more powerful and has led to devices capable of providing similar functionality as the Arkangel.
The Arkangel device is essentially a neural implant parental control device. Some of its functionality, such as real time location, health metrics,
and live point-of-view video streaming, can be found in incredibly non pervasive devices such as smartwatches. Moochies [2] (and many other parental
smartwatches) provide parents with GPS tracking for the child wearing the
watch via an app, as well as the ability to video call and an SOS feature.
Such watches have already been banned in Germany [3], but whether the
reason for the ban was due to privacy concerns or due to the insecurity of
the devices is not clear. Some models of these watches were found to be
so insecure that the data held regarding every child was essentially publicly
available due to a lack of verification of an authentication token [4].
2

Other similar parental control technologies include the vast suite of remote smartphone monitoring applications. For example, MSpy [5] allows
parents to track the social media usage, call logs, location, and internet usage of a connected mobile device. The software is intended to give parents
peace of mind and help them identify problematic behaviour. Another application, Bark, uses machine learning to automatically detect signs of online
predators, adult content, or cyberbullying [6] and alerts the parents, removing the need for manual observation.
Obviously this technology can be abused, and despite being solely marketed at parents, reports of such applications being used for stalking exists.
The Financial Times reported that 54% of domestic abusers track their victims using stalkerware, which includes both these parental control applications and other more malicious and specialised tracking software [7]. Installation typically requires physical access to the device, though despite efforts
from Apple removing such applications from the App store due to privacy
concerns , can be installed easily from the web by exploiting a vulnerability
with iCloud [8].
Feal, Fajardo, and Manuel [9] investigated the privacy features of these
applications and if users were made aware of how their data was being treated.
From the applications surveyed, half did not make it clear if their child’s data
was being stored on third party servers. Many also exhibited behaviours that
could be considered unexpected, such as sending the entire text message
history to the application server, rather than only sending those that arrive
once the software is activated on the device. Some data was also found to be
being sent to a third party before informing the user of the privacy policy.
Such applications are able to filter content on the child’s device, but the
ability to remotely see and filter the child’s experience of the world (and
especially via a method as non-pervasive as a brain implant) is the most
futuristic feature of the Arkangel system. Brain-computer interfaces (BCIs)
are currently a popular area of research, which means that some of the functionality provided by the Arkangel brain implant can currently be attempted.
A common approach involves using readings from an electroencephalograph
(EEG) which map to signals produced by the brain in response to different
stimuli or thoughts. For example, Kapoor, Shenoy, and Tan [10] have produced a classifier that can use signals from an EEG to determine what object
someone is currently looking at.
In the episode, a rise in cortisol levels are used to determine when the
child is stressed and triggers the augmented reality filtering. Parlak et al.
3

were able to create a wearable device capable of measuring cortisol levels just
as effectively as a laboratory test. The original intention of such wearable
technology was to help care for the elderly and speed up the diagnosis of
possible illnesses. However, health insurance providers are often a third party
consumer of the data that is produced by fitness tracking wearables as they
can use it when determining prices for their customers [11].
Wearables for children have also been used to help those with autism
improve their social skills. For example, the camera provided by Google
Glass has been used to detect the emotions of whoever the child is currently
speaking to and provide an audio cue to the wearer of what their expression
means (e.g. sadness, excitement) [12]. The social interactions are recorded
and the data is stored in a remote database so that it can also be reviewed
at a later time. Awake Labs are also working on a technology that draws
even closer to the Arkangel device. By combining health tracking wearables
like those previously discussed, they hope to be able to pre-emptively detect
meltdowns caused by overstimulation, and communicate when such an event
seems likely to parents or carers [13].

3
3.1

Pros and Cons
Health Monitoring

The episode captures some of the benefits and drawbacks that technology like
the Arkangel would provide to society. For example, during the induction
process, the device is able to detect an iron deficiency which the parent could
then combat by changing the child’s diet (Figure 1). This information would
make dietary problems clearer to parents, ensuring children are healthy, possibly solving the issue of global malnutrition at least in developed countries
where the technology was available [14]. The device could also detect other
illnesses like diabetes or heart problems so that they could be treated early
on. The SOS feature could protect children that are victims of abuse by
allowing for quick and simple contact with emergency services.
Though in the episode, the grandfather’s stroke is indirectly detected by
a stress increase in the child, if the Arkangel device was also given to the
elderly and vulnerable it could allow for more efficient care facilities and
quicker response times to incidents. Given the popularity of personal health
tracking devices nowadays, it would also be likely that the Arkangel device
4

Figure 1: Vitals view from the parental hub with the iron deficiency highlighted [15].
would be used to allow people to monitor their own vitals for diet or training
purposes.
These applications raise many of the same issues as modern day health
trackers: is the data being processed by a third party, is the data secured in
storage and in transit, can the device be abused in any way, how reliable are
the readings? In the case of the elderly, the discreteness of the device means
that those suffering from illnesses such as dementia may forget if they are
being monitored remotely. Bowes et al. [16] describe this as a transition into
covert monitoring, i.e. the consent of the patient would require renewing.
As mentioned earlier, health data from wearable devices is already being
used by health insurance companies to determine what to charge customers
based on their risk of illness. Some insurers are even making it mandatory
that customers provide the data from their personal health tracking wearables
[17]. Though this benefits the insurers and those that show low risk of illness,
it may result in high risk patients being denied the financial support they
need.
The technology could also alter the typical relationship between parent
and child. Lupton and Williamson discuss [18] how the analytics provided
by devices such as the Arkangel could result in parents relying on metrics

5

to maintain their child as though they were a machine. Children may feel
like they do not have a voice as their attempts to verbalise their own feelings
would be ignored in favour of the interpretation made by the device. Ghosh
et al. analysed responses from teens on parental control applications on
the Google Play store and noted that many felt that the applications were
damaging the relationship with their parents [19].

3.2

Location and Point-of-View Video Streaming

Location tracking is already available to parents, and point-of-view video
streaming could be provided by wearable devices. These features could help
find children who go missing, and give parents peace of mind as they would
be able to check that the friends, teachers, and carers for their child are
treating them well. Elderly found to be ‘wandering’ can be tracked easily, or
helped remotely as is done with the app ‘Be My eyes’ [20].
However, the device pays no attention to the privacy preferences of those
the child interacts with. Though CCTV is ubiquitous in many countries, and
emergency service staff carry body cameras, it would not be as clear to tell
if your interaction with a child is being relayed to their parent or some other
third party. This could result in a chilling effect, where teachers are afraid
to discipline children in any way out of fear that the parent would disagree
with their means of doing so. On the other hand, if it is known that the child
has the implant, they may be alienated from their peers that would rather
not have their interactions recorded.
This chilling effect could reduce anti-social behaviour in children (or anyone using the device) as they would know their actions are being recorded.
If the data was made available to police or government agencies, then crime
rates might decrease and incorrect accusations could be eliminated as the
video evidence of a persons every action would exist. The mass surveillance implemented in China could be considered comparable to this use case,
where jaywalkers and murderers can be identified, tracked, and footage of
their crime likely recorded [21].
Those being tracked may also be frustrated knowing they are never truly
‘alone’, or that they can be held accountable for every action ranging from
singing in the shower to gossiping about others. Current parental location
tracking devices do not suffer from this issue, as the devices are limited by
their battery life, or can even be removed. An implant such as the Arkangel
device however does not share this feature.
6

3.3

Real-Time Content Filter

The cultural norm in most societies is that children should be slowly exposed
to the dangers and upsetting parts of life. Statistics show that childhood
trauma often produces unstable adults, who suffer from depression and anxiety [22], as well as being more likely to suffer from substance abuse [23].
This link has been attributed to how the parts of the brain that regulate
oxytocin production and emotions in general are affected by both positive
and negative experiences early in life.
This might suggest that the Arkangel system would be wholly beneficial
for children if never deactivated. However, Hanswijck de Jonge points out
that this can result in children unable to cope with the stress of the real world
when they are eventually exposed to it [24]. Children can become frustrated
and aggressive; these emotions triggered by the lack of agency in their own
lives. This phenomenon is shown during the episode, where we see the child
self harm in an attempt to experience what the filter does not let them see,
and then later attack their mother when they realise the how much she had
interfered with their lives.
The device seems to have no simple way to be removed, giving parents
the ability to censor and monitor their child’s life indefinitely. In the episode,
we see how the mother betrays the trust of her daughter by monitoring her
without consent after promising to no longer use the device. If we consider
that not only parents could have access to the Arkangel implant, but governments or malicious hackers, it becomes clear that someone having control
of what you can see could be problematic. For example, governments could
use the filter to censor any negative information about them under the guise
of protecting citizens from unpleasant content.
The implants ability to alter someone’s perception of the world could also
lead to even more intrusive advertising. Alternatively, it could also provide
immersive entertainment beyond the capabilities of virtual reality headsets.

4
4.1

Regulatory Modalities
Code/Architecture

The lack of control the implantee has over when they are being tracked is the
primary issue with the design of the Arkangel system. This could be mitigated by the developers providing a method for the implantee to deactivate
7

the device or some features of it. When discussing the issue of ‘sharenting’ where parents publish images and videos of their children without their consent - a study by the Children’s Commissioner found that many children did
not like their parent controlling their private information, but felt helpless
to stop them [25]. A secondary device that allowed the child to toggle when
their location or point-of-view video stream was available to the parent (or
any party tracking them) could partially resolve this.
This would not remove the ability for the parent to control the content
filters on the child’s experience of life, but could instead encourage discussion
between both parties about why such filters are beneficial for the child. The
process could be considered analogous to a parent covering the child’s eyes if
inappropriate content is shown on a television: the child can avoid the filter,
but chooses not to as they understand the parents intentions, or even ask
what they are being protected from. This way, when they are exposed to it,
it is less of a shock.
A potential downfall of this system would be if someone else gained physical access to the controlling device. The ability to secure the device using
biometrics are a plausible solution, but would require that the developers
account for situations such as the child being forced to unlock the device.
To protect those with memory loss from the covert monitoring discussed
earlier, the device could ensure renewed consent through regular requests to
review current permissions. How often these requests occur could be configurable by the user to allow them to limit the intervals to their preference.
Given parents would become reliant on the device to determine the health
of their child, the developers would need to ensure that the readings from
their device are reliable. If over-sensitive, parents may seek medical attention
when it is unnecessary. Prgomet et al. found when investigating the attitudes
of medical professionals towards continuous monitoring technology that an
increase in inappropriate escalations were triggered by the it [26]. Incorrect
readings could also result in treatment that did more harm than good.
The data that could be collected from these devices could aid medical
research and improve the devices, but on the other hand could have consequences for the user if not handled properly. Apple have already found
an approach which involves two separate platforms to allow users to share
health data from their devices with either researchers (ResearchKit) or other
applications (HealthKit) [27]. Anonymisation of the data being communicated via either platform could help preserve the privacy of users, while still
allow progress to be made. The anonymisation process would need to be
8

sophisticated enough to stop techniques such as cross referencing with other
sources being able to de-anonymise the data, which is a problem currently
being tackled [28].

4.2

Market

In the episode, Sara is entered into a free trial of the Arkangel as an early
tester, and so we are not given an idea of how it is priced. Regardless,
any price would put such a device out of reach of lower income families.
Robeznieks points out how this discrimination already exists because those
who can afford fitness tracking wearables are eligible for cheaper health insurance [29]. Another likely solution would be for users of the device to ‘sell’
the data recorded by the device instead of paying for the device directly. This
model effectively forces those in poverty to sacrifice their privacy for their
health.
Instead, we should consider solutions that do not remove power from the
less well off. When discussing how governments can help regulate behaviour
through manipulating market forces, Lessig describes how child care subsidies
reduce the constraints of raising children [30]. Therefore by subsidising the
cost of the Arkangel devices, more of the population would be able to afford
them. The cost of these subsidies would easily be offset by the reduced
load on health services, and on police due to less cases of missing children.
The long term benefits to improving the availability of healthcare according
to a report from the European Health Management Association include a
reduction in poverty and social exclusion [31].

4.3

Law

Currently, the U.S department of Health & Human Services applies different
constraints on health data that is collected in the context of a hospital to
that which is collected from wearable fitness trackers [32]. The former is
considered health data, and the latter is consumer data. The line between
these two concepts would likely need to be revised given the existence of
technology such as Arkangel. Given the depth of knowledge that such a
device would hold, and that improvements would likely lead to it providing
early diagnosis without the need for a medical professional, the device becomes a borderline digital doctor. Therefore, it makes sense that the same
legal frameworks in place to protect patient-doctor confidentiality should be
9

in place for Arkangel. For example, currently doctors in the UK are only
able to provide an incredibly limited version of a patients medical history
to insurance companies, and any other details can only be shared with the
patients consent [33].
For the children implanted with the device, consent is a concept that will
need revised. Gligorijević points out that the law currently favours parental
control rather than the privacy rights of children [34]. This is based on
an assumption that parents will always perform in the best interests of the
child, but in the article she discusses how many parents fail their child in
this respect. Given this contradiction, and the fact that the Convention on
the Rights of the Child states that:
”In all actions concerning children, ... , the best interests of the
child shall be a primary consideration.” [35]
there is a need for laws that clearly define the privacy rights of the child,
separate from the rights of the parents. The European Convention on Human Rights is written to be applied universally, regardless of age or gender.
However Gligorijević goes on to say that article 8 (the right to respect for
private and family life, home and correspondence [36]) weakens the rights of
the child due to the dependence on the parents wishes. Steinberg recognises
existing and proposes new solutions to this problem [37]. For example, due
to the nature of children to ”self-reveal before they self-reflect” [38], California codified the right for children to delete anything they post to social
media if they later change their mind. This model, coupled with the ’Right
to be Forgotten’ of the Data Privacy Directive, could allow children (once
matured) to request deletion of any data from their childhood. Steinberg
also advocates for parents and children to be better educated about privacy
so that they consider it in their daily lives.
The privacy of the implantee is not the only instance we must consider.
Everyone they interact with will be recorded by the device via the pointof-view video stream. In the UK, it is not illegal to record a conversation
in secret if it is for personal use [39], but in the case of the Arkangel, it is
difficult to determine who exactly is performing the recording. If we assume
that the recordings remain within the confines of the parent and child (i.e. no
other third party has access to the recordings), then the privacy of whatever
establishment they are in also needs to be respected. For example, if you
are in someone else’s home and they ask for you not to record, the use of
10

the Arkangel device then becomes trespassing [40]. Laws requiring that such
requests are respected would need to be in place in order to deter people
from covertly recording others.
In the episode, the mother threatens to use the recordings from the device
to incriminate someone. There are consequences for allowing this use of the
covertly recorded footage and for not. If considered legal, then the chilling
effect mentioned earlier would be prominent. The number of cases where
such footage could quickly provide the honest truth and ensure justice may
justify this sousveillance. Alternatively, the social tension and global loss of
privacy resulting from constantly being recorded by everyone you meet might
not be worth it.

4.4

Social Norms

In the episode, we see that the child implanted with the device is alienated
from her friends because of it. Knowing that her friends had more freedoms
than her, the child acted out against them. A study by the European Commission found that coordination between the parents of children regarding
rules on the use of digital technology resulted in children who did not argue
against these rules [41]. This methodology could be applied to Arkangel,
where parents could agree the level of filtering their children should receive
to remove social friction. This would also encourage discussion between parents and likely influences their judgement, avoiding parents using the filters
innappropriately.
It is also likely that the Arkangel will need to be given some visible
presence on the bearer so that those around know they are using the device.
Any kind of signal to let others know whether or not they are being recorded
could help build trust. For example, during conversation if someone wishes
to divulge personal information with another who is using the device, they
could request that they stop recording and be given a clear physical cue (like
a small blinking LED stopping) that the request has been fufilled.

11

5

Opinion

References
[1] Weiwei Chen and Jessica L. Adler. Assessment of Screen Exposure in
Young Children, 1997 to 2014. volume 173, pages 391–393. 04 2019.
[2] Moochies phone for kids. https://moochies.com/.
[3] Jane Wakefield. Germany bans children’s smartwatches, Nov 2017.
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-42030109.
[4] Catalin Cimpanu. Cheap kids smartwatch exposes the location of 5,000
children. ZDNet, Nov 2019. https://www.zdnet.com/article/cheapkids-smartwatch-exposes-the-location-of-5000-children/.
[5] Mspy. https://www.mspy.com/.
[6] Bark.
https://famisafe.wondershare.com/reviews/barkparental-control.html.
[7] Camilla Hodgson. Inside the secretive world of stalking apps. Financial Times, Jul 2019. https://www.ft.com/content/263133ac-a28b11e9-974c-ad1c6ab5efd1.
[8] Why apple is shutting down third-party parental control apps. Nov
2019. https://www.komando.com/security-privacy/apple-cracksdown-on-third-party-parental-control-apps/564098/.
[9] Álvaro Feal Fajardo. Study on privacy of parental control mobile applications. http://oa.upm.es/47135/, June 2017.
[10] A. Kapoor, P. Shenoy, and Desney Tan. Combining brain computer interfaces with vision for object categorization. In 2008 IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 1–8, June 2008.
[11] Heather Turner. The pros and cons of wearables in insurance.
https://www.insurancebusinessmag.com/us/news/technology/
the-pros-and-cons-of-wearables-in-insurance-116148.aspx.
[12] Camera on google glass may boost social skills in kids with asd, Mar
2019. https://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/910915.
12

[13] Janet Burns. Wearable for kids with autism may help predict,
avoid meltdowns, June 2016.
https://www.forbes.com/sites/
janetwburns/2016/06/14/wearable-for-kids-with-autism-mayhelp-predict-avoid-meltdowns/#5accfdd4a8a8.
[14] Unmasking hidden hunger in the developed world, Nov 2018.
https://foodsustainability.eiu.com/unmasking-hidden-hungerin-the-developed-world/.
[15] Netflix. ‘Arkangel’, Black Mirror, S2E4.
[16] Alison Bowes, Alison Dawson, and David Bell. Ethical implications of
using lifestyle monitoring data in ageing research. volume 15. 02 2012.
[17] Enrique Dans. Insurance, wearables and the future of healthcare,
Sep 2018.
https://www.forbes.com/sites/enriquedans/2018/
09/21/insurance-wearables-and-the-future-of-healthcare/
#368968131782.
[18] Deborah Lupton and Ben Williamson. The datafied child: The dataveillance of children and implications for their rights. volume 19, page
146144481668632. 01 2017.
[19] Arup Kumar Ghosh, Karla Badillo-Urquiola, Shion Guha, Joseph J.
LaViola Jr, and Pamela J. Wisniewski. Safety vs. surveillance: What
children have to say about mobile apps for parental control. In Proceedings of the 2018 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems, CHI ’18, New York, NY, USA, 2018. Association for Computing Machinery.
[20] Be my eyes - see the world together. https://www.bemyeyes.com/.
[21] Paul Mozur. Inside china’s dystopian dreams: A.i., shame and
lots of cameras, Jul 2018. https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/08/
business/china-surveillance-technology.html.
[22] Margaret Wright, Emily Crawford, and Darren Castillo. Childhood emotional maltreatment and later psychological distress among college students: The mediating role of maladaptive schemas. volume 33, pages
59–68. 02 2009.

13

[23] Nena Messina, Patricia Marinelli-Casey, Maureen Hillhouse, Richard
Rawson, Jeremy Hunter, and Alfonso Ang. Childhood adverse events
and methamphetamine use among men and women. volume Suppl 5,
pages 399–409. 11 2008.
[24] Helicopter parenting:
The consequences, Nov 2018.
https:
//www.internationalschoolparent.com/articles/helicopterparenting-the-consequences/.
[25] Life in likes, Jun 2019. https://www.childrenscommissioner.gov.
uk/publication/life-in-likes/.
[26] Mirela Prgomet, Magnolia Cardona-Morrell, Margaret Nicholson, Rebecca Lake, Janet Long, Johanna Westbrook, Jeffrey Braithwaite, and
Ken Hillman. Vital signs monitoring on general wards: clinical staff
perceptions of current practices and the planned introduction of continuous monitoring technology. International Journal for Quality in Health
Care, 28(4):515–521, 09 2016.
[27] Allie Volpe, Amy Mackelden, Rolling Stone, and Harper’s Bazaar. How
to participate in mobile health studies without sacrificing your privacy
- explainers, Jan 2020. https://thepapergown.zocdoc.com/how-toparticipate-in-mobile-health-studies-without-sacrificingyour-privacy/.
[28] Yves-Alexandre Montjoye, Cesar Hidalgo, Michel Verleysen, and Vincent Blondel. Unique in the crowd: The privacy bounds of human mobility. Scientific reports, 3:1376, 03 2013.
[29] Insurers want patients to use wearables. that could be a problem., Aug
2019. https://www.ama-assn.org/practice-management/digital/
insurers-want-patients-use-wearables-could-be-problem.
[30] Lawrence Lessig. Code 2.0. CreateSpace, Scotts Valley, CA, 2nd edition,
2009.
[31] Nicoline Tamsma and Philip C Berman. The role of the health
care sector in tackling poverty and social exclusion in europe. pages
14–14, 2004. http://www.wales.nhs.uk/sitesplus/documents/888/
Appendix1.pdf.
14

[32] Office for Civil Rights HHS Office of the Secretary and Ocr.
Methods for de-identification of phi, Nov 2015.
https:
//www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/privacy/specialtopics/de-identification/index.html.
[33] Gerard Panting. How much information should gps provide to insurance
companies?, Feb 2003. https://www.guidelinesinpractice.co.uk/
your-practice/how-much-information-should-gps-provide-toinsurance-companies/300620.article.
[34] Jelena Gligorijević. Children’s Privacy: The Role of Parental Control
and Consent. volume 19, pages 201–229. 07 2019.
[35] Convention on the Rights of the Child. United Nations, 1991. Article 3.
[36] Guide on Article 8 of the European Convention On Human Rights. European Court of Human Rights, 2019. https://www.echr.coe.int/
Documents/Guide_Art_8_ENG.pdf.
[37] Stacey B. Steinberg. Sharenting: Children’s privacy in the age of social
media. University of Florida Law Faculty Publications, 2017. https:
//scholarship.law.ufl.edu/facultypub/779/.
[38] Somini Sengupta.
Sharing, with a safety net, Sep 2013.
https://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/20/technology/billprovides-reset-button-for-youngsters-online-posts.html.
[39] The telecommunications (lawful business practice) (interception of communications) regulations 2000. http://www.legislation.gov.uk/
uksi/2000/2699/regulation/3/made.
[40] Ashley Carman. You can keep recording people in public, but don’t capture their faces, Oct 2018. https://www.theverge.com/2018/10/24/
18015374/whyd-you-push-that-button-record-stranger-public.
[41] David Smahel, Stephane Chaudron, Manfred Beutel, Martina
Šmahelová, Donoso V., Dreier M., Fletcher-Watson B., Heikkilä AS, Vera Zurkova, Korkeamäki R-L, Sonia Livingstone, Jackie Marsh,
Giovanna Mascheroni, Marina Micheli, Milesi D., Kai Müller, MyllyläNygård T., Niska M., Olkina O., and Klaus Wölfling. Young children

15

(0-8) and digital technology: A qualitative exploratory study across
seven countries. page 18, 01 2015.

16

